---
name: "llParticleSystem"
category: "function"
type: "function"
language: "LSL"
description: "Defines a particle system for the containing prim based on a list of rules."
signature: "void llParticleSystem(list rules)"
return_type: "void"
sleep_time: ""
energy_cost: "10.0"
wiki_url: 'https://wiki.secondlife.com/wiki/llParticleSystem'
deprecated: "false"
first_fetched: "2026-03-10"
last_updated: "2026-03-10"
patterns: ["llparticlesystem"]
---

Defines a particle system for the containing prim based on a list of rules.


## Signature

```lsl
void llParticleSystem(list rules);
```


## Parameters


| Type | Name | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| `list (instructions)` | `rules` | Particle system rules list in the format [ rule1, data1, rule2, data2 . . . rulen, datan ] |


## Caveats

- Energy cost: **10.0**.


## See Also

- [SL Wiki](https://wiki.secondlife.com/wiki/llParticleSystem)


<!-- wiki-source -->
_Source: [SL Wiki](https://wiki.secondlife.com/wiki/llParticleSystem) — scraped 2026-03-18_

Defines a particle system for the containing prim based on a list of rules.

## Caveats

1. When using particle systems that have a non-zero emitter age (PSYS_SRC_MAX_AGE) setting, you may notice that the particle system may restart without any scripted trigger going off. This is due to a bug which causes the emitter to "reset" when any of the prim properties are updated or otherwise sent to the viewer. As a result, you may have to use a timer or a forced sleep and then clear the particle system once the age has expired. Debbie Trilling has posted a work-around here: [https://forums-archive.secondlife.com/54/fa/260031/1.html#post1996465](https://forums-archive.secondlife.com/54/fa/260031/1.html#post1996465)
1. The spin defined by PSYS_SRC_OMEGA is relative to the region coordinate system, NOT the prim's local coordinate system.
1. New non-zero vector values for PSYS_SRC_OMEGA will not re-align the emitter with the prim before they take effect.  The viewer will continue rotating the emitter with the new omega values, starting from the last known orientation of the emitter.  The emitter's current orientation is determined by the viewer, not the simulator, and two people looking at the same effect may see different results.  To re-align the emitter with the prim, create an effect with PSYS_SRC_OMEGA set to ZERO_VECTOR long enough for the viewer to have a chance to render it.
1. Particles moving towards a humanoid avatar, specified by PSYS_SRC_TARGET_KEY rule and setting the PSYS_PART_TARGET_POS_MASK flag, will end up at the geometric center of the avatar's bounding box which, unfortunately, make them appear to be striking the person in the groin area. If you want them to end up at another point on a target avatar, you instead have to place a target prim that is moved to the position where you wish them to end up, and use the key of that prim for the value of the PSYS_SRC_TARGET_KEY rule.
1. The Second Life viewer uses optimizations in culling objects which are too small to see at certain distances. If your emitter is very small, and is culled due to distance, the particle system associated with it will not be rendered either.
1. Particles will also be culled beyond a maximum distance depending on their own scale. If particles are desired to be visible from further away yet be visually smaller, a larger scale and a texture with empty padding space are needed. If using PSYS_PART_RIBBON_MASK, make sure the Y scale is set properly, as it is used for this calculation even the rendering of the ribbon particles themselves ignores it.
1. When PSYS_PART_FOLLOW_VELOCITY_MASK is enabled, particles with zero velocity (e.g. generated by the DROP pattern, without acceleration, wind or target position following) are not rendered at all. Particles following their source via PSYS_PART_FOLLOW_SRC_MASK does not count as having a velocity, even if the source is moving.

## Examples

- Example Particle Script
- Neurocam Particle Engine



This example produces an effusion of glowing red spheres:

```lsl
llParticleSystem( [
        PSYS_PART_FLAGS,       PSYS_PART_WIND_MASK | PSYS_PART_EMISSIVE_MASK,
        PSYS_SRC_PATTERN,      PSYS_SRC_PATTERN_EXPLODE,
        PSYS_PART_START_COLOR, <1.0, 0.0, 0.0>
    ] );
```

## Notes

### Link Numbers

Each prim that makes up an object has an address, a link number. To access a specific prim in the object, the prim's link number must be known. In addition to prims having link numbers, avatars seated upon the object do as well.

- If an object consists of only one prim, and there are no avatars seated upon it, the (root) prim's link number is zero.
- However, if the object is made up of multiple prims or there is an avatar seated upon the object, the root prim's link number is one.

When an avatar sits on an object, it is added to the end of the link set and will have the largest link number. In addition to this, while an avatar is seated upon an object, the object is unable to link or unlink prims without unseating all avatars first.

#### Counting Prims & Avatars

There are two functions of interest when trying to find the number of prims and avatars on an object.

- `llGetNumberOfPrims()` - Returns the number of prims and seated avatars.
- `llGetObjectPrimCount(llGetKey())` - Returns only the number of prims in the object but will return zero for attachments.

```lsl
integer GetPrimCount() { //always returns only the number of prims
    if(llGetAttached())//Is it attached?
        return llGetNumberOfPrims();//returns avatars and prims but attachments can't be sat on.
    return llGetObjectPrimCount(llGetKey());//returns only prims but won't work on attachments.
}
```

See llGetNumberOfPrims for more about counting prims and avatars.

#### Errata

If a script located in a child prim erroneously attempts to access link 0, it will get or set the property of the linkset's root prim.  This bug ([BUG-5049](https://jira.secondlife.com/browse/BUG-5049)) is preserved for broken legacy scripts.

### Other Notes

- The default particle count for the client is normally set at 4096. That is the max particle count the client will render for ALL active particle systems within view range. Good particle system design is key to avoid "spamming" everyone with your particles, and starving out other people's particle systems. As such, if you are experiencing trouble getting your particle emitter to emit as many particles as you like, it may be the victim of particle starvation. Client/viewer lag (low frame rates) can also cause this issue, as particles are a rather low priority for rendering. The best solution for this is to move to a less laggy environment relatively free of other particle systems when designing and testing your own.
- Once particles are emitted, their direction of motion can only be affected by PSYS_SRC_ACCEL, the PSYS_PART_TARGET_POS_MASK flag, or the PSYS_PART_FOLLOW_SRC_MASK flag. As such, there is no good way to create the "swirling vortex" effect (like the one used in the viewer to indicate an object talking, begin derezzed, or when an avatar leaves the sim/grid). The effect can be created with a moving particle source (E.G. An orbiting script.)
- Although the declared particle sizes are always in multiples of 0.03125 meters, PSYS_PART_INTERP_SCALE_MASK allows smooth transitions between the start and end values. This also applies to a size of ZERO_VECTOR, e.g. scaling a particle from or to nothing.
- [[Something Talia realised that blew her mind](https://wiki.secondlife.com/wiki/User:Talia_Tokugawa/concept/CrazyParticle)], Documenting experiments with particles, including tutorial of how to do video particles, and how to (disputably) massively exceed the 8192 Limit in terms of how many particles SL can render at one time. (Whilst rendering video on particles is not new just (until now) undocumented, I am fairly confident in saying the method to exceed the particle limit is new.)

## See Also

### Functions

- **llGetLinkNumber** — prim

### Articles

- Color in LSL
- Translucent Color

<!-- /wiki-source -->
